.\"
.\" $Id: cap_get_proc.3,v 1.1.1.1 1999/04/17 22:16:31 morgan Exp $
.\"
.TH CAP_GET_PROC 3 "26th May 1997" "" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
cap_get_proc, cap_set_proc \- POSIX capability manipulation on
processes
.sp
capgetp, capsetp \- Linux specific capability manipulation on
arbitrary processes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/capability.h>
.sp
.B cap_t cap_get_proc(void);
.br
.BI "int cap_set_proc(cap_t " cap_p );
.sp
.B #undef _POSIX_SOURCE
.br
.B #include <sys/capability.h>
.sp
.BI "cap_t capgetp(pid_t " pid ", cap_t " cap_d );
.br
.BI "cap_t capsetp(pid_t " pid ", cap_t " cap_d );

.SH USAGE
.br
.B cc ... -lcap
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR cap_get_proc ()
allocates a capability state in working storage, sets its state to
that of the calling process, and returns a pointer to this newly
created capability state.  The caller should free any releasable
memory, when the capability state in working storage is no longer
required, by calling
.BR cap_free ()
with the
.I cap_t
as an argument.
.PP
.BR cap_set_proc ()
sets the values for all capability flags for all capabilities with the
capability state identified by
.IR cap_p .
The new capability state of the process will be completely determined by
the contents of
.I cap_p
upon successful return from this function.  If any flag in
.I cap_p
is set for any capability not currently permitted for the calling process,
the function will fail, and the capability state of the process will remain
unchanged.
.PP
.BR capgetp ()
fills an existing
.BR cap_d ,
see 
.BR cap_init (3),
with the process capabilities of the process indicated by
.IR pid .
This information can also be obtained from the
.B /proc/<pid>/status
file.
.PP
.BR capsetp ()
attempts to set the capabilities of some other process(es),
.IR pid . 
If
.I pid
is positive it refers to a specific process;  if it is zero, it refers
to the current process; -1 refers to all processes other than the
current process and process '1' (typically 
.BR init (8));
other negative values refer to the
.I -pid
process-group.  In order to use this function, the current process
must have
.B CAP_SETPCAP
raised in its Effective capability set.  The capabilities set in the
target process(es) are those contained in
.IR cap_d .

.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.BR cap_get_proc ()
returns a non-NULL value on success, and NULL on failure.
.PP
.BR cap_set_proc (),
.BR capgetp ()
and
.BR capsetp ()
return zero for success, and \-1 on failure.
.PP
On failure,
.I errno
is set to
.BR EINVAL ,
.BR EPERM,
or
.BR ENOMEM .
.SH "CONFORMING TO"
.BR cap_set_proc ()
and
.BR cap_get_proc ()
are functions specified in the draft for POSIX.1e.

.SH "NOTES"
The function
.BR capsetp ()
should be used with care.  It exists, primarily, to overcome a lack of
support for capabilities in any of the filesystems supported by Linux.
The semantics of this function may change as it is better understood.
Please note, by default, the only processes that have
.B CAP_SETPCAP
available to them are processes started as a kernel-thread.
(Typically this includes
.BR init (8),
kflushd and kswapd). You will need to recompile the kernel to modify
this default.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR cap_clear (3),
.BR cap_copy_ext (3),
.BR cap_from_text (3),
.BR cap_get_file (3),
.BR cap_init (3),
.BR capabilities (7)
