.\"
.\" capsh.1 Man page added 2009-11-22 Andrew G. Morgan <morgan@kernel.org>
.\"
.TH CAPSH 1 "2009-11-22" "libcap 2" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
capsh \- capability shell wrapper
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B capsh
[\fIOPTION\fR]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
Linux capability support and use can be explored and constrained with
this tool. This tool provides a handy wrapper for certain types
of capability testing and environment creation. It also provides some
debugging features useful for summarizing capability state.
.SH OPTIONS
The tool takes a number of optional arguments, acting on them in the
order they are provided. They are as follows:
.TP 22
.B --print
Display prevailing capability and related state.
.TP
.BI -- " [args]"
Execute
.B /bin/bash
with trailing arguments. Note, you can use
.B -c 'command to execute'
for commands.
.TP
.B ==
Execute
.B capsh
again with remaining arguments. Useful for testing
.BR exec ()
behavior.
.TP
.BI --caps= cap-set
Set the prevailing process capabilities to those specified by
.IR cap-set .
Where
.I cap-set
is a text-representation of capability state as per
.BR cap_from_text (3).
.TP
.BI --drop= <cap-list>
.TP
.BI --inh= <cap-list>
.TP
.BI --keep= <0|1>
.TP
.BI --chroot= <path>
.TP
.BI --secbits= <N>
.TP
.BI --forkfor= <sec>
.TP
.BI --killit= <sig>
.TP
.BI --uid= <id>
.TP
.BI --gid= <id>
.TP
.BI --groups= <gid-list>
.TP
.BI --user= <username>
.TP
.BI --decode= <N>
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
Following successful execution the tool exits with status 0. Following
an error, the tool immediately exits with status 1.
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Andrew G. Morgan <morgan@kernel.org>.
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Please report bugs to the author.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR libcap (3),
.BR getcap (8), setcap (8)
and
.BR capabilities (7).
